Now that you know about StructType schemas,
let's move on to joining DataFrames.
This is where we are in the lesson.
We just worked with parsing JSON,
now we will be joining DataFrames.
The steps to joining start with looking into the kind of data you want to deliver.
You then survey your available fields to see where you can source them from.
During this process, you should also be considering fields to join on.
Let's look at analyzing the desired sink.
One of the main purposes of writing
a streaming application is to accept data from multiple sources.
Joining on streaming data can be very powerful
because typically the data is changing very rapidly.
Creating a combined view of the data as it changes together adds tremendous value.
Now that you have looked at your source data,
it's time to start planning the sink.
What is the final goal?
What is the format of data you plan to send to the other system?
Often the person who knows the answer is
someone on another team who needs the data you provide.
Other times there is no definitive answer,
so you create your own format.
As you interview system owners from other teams,
it will be important to discuss the fields they need.
Once you have discussed the data that is needed,
you can create a mock data sample.
Ask for feedback on the mock data sample before writing the Spark application.
This will give you the chance to refine the data model.
Data mocking is creating a representative sample of an undefined source of data.
Sometimes, only a few critical fields are what is needed.
In this example, there are three fields:
customerId, originatingAirport, and destinationAirport.
It is a common practice to include all available fields,
but this can be risky.
The downstream consumers may rely on fields that are subject to change.
The fewer fields you transmit,
the less likely it is that something will change.
You have now learned to analyze the desired sink.
Next, you will assess your source inventory.
Now that you've designed the format for your sink,
you should decide where the data will come from.
Certain fields will be present in multiple sources.
This is because often systems have redundancy in the data they generate.
Some redundancy is helpful for joints.
However, some data sources are less authoritative than others.
Try to identify which sources are more authoritative for certain types of data.
In this example, customerId is present in all three sources.
This could be helpful for joining customer data as it is generated with departure data.
The flight number is present in both the flight data and departure data sources.
This could be helpful for joining flight data and departure data as it is generated.
The customer e-mail field is probably more
authoritative in the customer source than the flight source.
Once you have identified redundant fields,
you should be sure you have all your bases covered.
Make sure every field you need and your destination data sink has been identified.
In this example, the first payload has the customerId.
The second payload contains the originatingAirport and destinationAirport fields.
We will need both payloads to create the final sink,
which includes the customerId,
originatingAirport, and destinationAirport fields.
You've assessed your source inventory.
Now you will look at ways to join data.
Before we write our join,
we need to ensure we have a common field to join on.
I may see all the fields I need in various sources,
but unless there is a common field,
the join won't work.
In this example, there are four data types: Reservation,
VehicleStatus, Checkin, and Payment.
They each have unique data.
There are some common fields that connect these together. What are they?
Reservation, VehicleStatus, and Checkin all have a field called truck number.
Reservation, Checkin, and Payment all contain a field called reservationId.
In theory, this example would make joining
possible between any two data types with the same field.
Joining the reservation and the vehicle status DataFrames,
we now have the reservation with status DataFrame with all the data from both DataFrames.
To join means to connect
two data collections by referencing a field they share in common,
or a join can mean the state which connects
two data collections by referencing a common field.
It's a very good idea to look at samples of
each data source to see if fields are standardized.
Unfortunately, it is common to use the same field name to mean different things,
especially in different systems.
Look at these four data types.
Do you see anything different about them?
Reservation, Checkin, and Payment all format the reservationId differently.
After examining Reservation and Checkin,
it appears the main difference is the leading zeros.
Until further data samples are obtained for payment,
it is hard to say if the reservationId is
the same field due to the significant difference in format.
In this example, we want to join the two payloads shown.
What is the common field we can join on?
The common field in both Ticketing and Flight Info is flightNumber.
Now we're going to walk through an example of joining two separate DataFrames.